## Implementing our dashboard in R

This was a technical challenge, as the programmatic differences between R and Python proved somewhat challenging. Throughout this process our entire team gained experience working in the R Studio IDE, as opposed to the Jupyter notebook enviornment that we were more familiar with. Much of the syntactical differences between Altair and Dash's R and Python implementations came down to the differing data structures within the two languages, most namely the use of named lists as opposed to dictionaries. In our `plot_lower_dash` code (which pertains to the lower half of our dashboard), we decided to simplify our interface and abandon one of our dropdown menus as well as two radio items, as implementing the chained callbacks in Dash's R implementation proved quite difficult.

In order to avoid having to replicate our data cleaning in R, we made use of the reticulate package in order to call our Python scripts from R. For the choropleth map, Altair's R implementation was able to directly read the geodataframe outputted from our script, which helped to simplify the process of getting it up and running in R. Overall, Altair's R implementation proved to be quite reliable and easy to implement, despite the relatively small amount of documentation that exists for it.

By translating our Dash and Altair code from Python to R, we had the opportunity to reanalyze our work. When troubleshooting became too time consuming, our group collaborated to target certain problems. While we all have some familiarity with each other’s code from Milestone 1 and 2, we gained invaluable experience explaining our code to others. This reinforced the importance of effective commenting while coding, a valuable skill we have discussed in the program before. 

## Future implementation

After speaking with Firas, we intend to explore making our choropleth map highlight the particular state/province that is currently selected by the user. This is also in line with feedback from family members and friends who we have shared the dashboard with. We also received feedback to increase the font size of our dashboard, and intend to implement this in Milestone 4.

Beyond this, we hope to add the ability to track the performance metrics of our dashboard, as this would allow us to target our improvements based on real world usage. For instance, if we have a high percentage of visitors who leave and never return, we might focus on simplifying the dashboard and making it more user friendly.

Finally, having been inspired by other presenters in the program, we intend to implement a tab system in order to separate the upper and lower portions of our dashboard in Milestone 4. Our landing tab will be the existing upper dashboard which features our choropleth map, while the secondary tab will contain the lower portion of our dashboard, which allows users to perform state/provincial as well as regional-level comparisons for a variety of different data points. This would likely improve the KPI of user retention by offering more technical users a means to perform more comprehenesive analysis, while ensuring that non-technical users are able to quickly and easily access the information that they seek.